
# GOCor : Bringing Globally Optimized Correspondence Volumes into Your Neural Netowrk

[paper link here](https://papers.nips.cc/paper/2020/file/a4a8a3I750a23de2da88ef6a491dfd5c-Paper.pdf)

## Abstract

We propose GOCor, a fully differentiable dense matching module, acting as a direct replacement
to the feature correlation layer.

The correspondence volume generated by our module is the result of an internal optimization procedure that
explicitly `accounts for similar regions in the scene.`

Moreover, out approach is capable of effectively learning spatial matching priors to resolve further matching
ambiguities.

## Introduction

In the feature correlation layer, each confidence value in the correspondence volume is obtained as
the scalar product between two feature vectors, extracted from specific locations in the two images,
here called the reference and the query images.

However, the sole reliance on point-to-point feature comparisons is often `insufficient` in order to disambiguate
`multiple similar regions` in an image

Our matching module encapsulates the aforementioned information and constraints into a learnable objectice function.

#### Contributions

* Our module is formulated as an `internal optimization procedure` that minimizes a customizable matching-objective during
inference, thereby providing a general framework for effectively integrating both explicit and learnable matching constraints.
* We propose a robust objective that `integrates information about similar regions in the scene`, allowing our GOCor module to
better disambiguate such cases.
* We introduce a learnable objective for capturing constrains and prior information about the query frame.
* 

## Method

### 3.1 Feature Correlation Layers

The feature correlation layer has become a key building block in the design of neural network architectures for a variety
of computer vision tasks, which either rely on or benefit from the estimation of dense correspondences between two images.

There are two common variants of the correlation layer.
* global correlation
* local correlation

### 3.2 Motivation

The main purpose of feature correlation layers is to predict a dense set of matching confidences between two images
*I*<sup>r</sup> and *I*<sup>q</sup>. However, this operation ignores two important sources of valuable information
when establishing dense correspondences.

* **Reference frame information** : The matching confidences  does not account for the appearance at other locations
of the reference image.
* **Query frame information** : The second source of information not exploited by the feature correlation layer is
matching constraints and priors that can be derived from the query *f*<sup>q</sup>. One such important constraint
is that each reference image location *f*<sup>r</sup><sub>ij</sub> can have at most `one matching location'
*f*<sup>q</sup><sub>ij</sub>.






