# Neighbourhood Consensus Networks

[paper link here](http://papers.neurips.cc/paper/7437-neighbourhood-consensus-networks.pdf)

## Abstract

We address the problem of finding `reliable dense correspondence` between a pair of images.
This is a challenging task due to `strong appearance differences between the corressponding scene
elements` and `ambiguities generated by repetitive patterns.`

The contributions of this work are threefold.

* We develop an `end-to-end trainable convolutional neural network architecture` that identifies sets of spatially
consistent matches by `analyzing neighbourhood consensus patterns` in the 4D space of all possible corresspondences
between a pair of images.
* We demonstrate that the model `can be trained effectively from weak supervision` in the form of mathcing and
non-matching image pairs without the need for costly manual annotation of point to point correspondences.
* We show the proposed neighbourhood consensus network `can be applied to a range of matching tasks including
both category and instance level matching.`

## Introduction

While we have now better local patch descriptors, the matching is still performed by variants of the nearest
neighbour assignment in a feature space followed by separate disambiguation stages based on geometric constaints.

However, this approach has fundamental limitaiton that cannot distinguish `repetitive patterns or textureless
regions.`

In this work, we take a different directino and develope a trainable neural network architecture that disambiguates
such challenging situations `by analyzing local neighbourhood patterns` in a full set of dense corresspondences.

The intuition is following : in order to disambiguate a match on a repetitive pattern, it is necessary
to `analyze a larger context of the scene that contains a unique non-repetitive feature.`
The information from this unique match can then be propagated to the neighbouring uncertain matches.

## Proposed approach

We design a model which learns to `discriminate a reliable match` by recognizing patterns of supporting
matches in its neighbourhood. Furthermore, We do this in a fully differentiable way, such that
this trainable matching module can be directly combined with strong CNN image descriptors.

There are five main components.
* dense feature extraction and matching
* the neighbourhood consensus network
* a soft mutual nearest neighbour filtering
* extraction of corresspondences from the output 4D filtered match tensor
* weakly supervised training loss
